APACHE SPARK
Apache Spark is a high-performance distributed computing framework 
how to work with Spark in a Hadoop cluster, with HDFS serving as the
data storage and YARN as the computing framework. Often, organizations use
several data sources to ingest data that become the source of most of their
analytical work. By running Spark on Hadoop, you can use the same Hadoop
cluster and the same data for running both MapReduce and Spark jobs.


it is an open source, wide range data processing engine.
Spark can perform batch processing and stream processing. Batch processing refers, to the processing of the previously collected job in a single batch. Whereas stream processing means to deal with Spark streaming data.
Spark is independent of Hadoop since it has its own cluster management system. Basically, it uses Hadoop for storage purpose only.
there is one spark’s key feature that it has in-memory cluster computation capability. Also increases the processing speed of an application.
Spark is written in Scala 
As we know, there was no general purpose computing engine in the industry, since

To perform batch processing, we were using Hadoop MapReduce.
Also, to perform stream processing, we were using Apache Storm / S4.
Moreover, for interactive processing, we were using Apache Impala / Apache Tez.
To perform graph processing, we were using Neo4j / Apache Giraph.
Hence there was no powerful engine in the industry, that can process the data both in real-time and batch mode. Also, there was a requirement that one engine can respond in sub-second and perform in-memory processing.
Therefore, Apache Spark programming enters, it is a powerful open source engine. 
Since, it offers real-time stream processing, interactive processing, graph processing, in-memory processing as well as batch processing. Even with very fast speed, ease of use and standard interface. 
Basically, these features create the difference between Hadoop and Spark. 


a. Spark Core
Spark Core is a central point of Spark. Basically, it provides an execution platform for all the Spark applications. Moreover, to support a wide array of applications, Spark Provides a  generalized platform.

b. Spark SQL
On the top of Spark, Spark SQL enables users to run SQL/HQL queries. We can process structured as well as semi-structured data, by using Spark SQL. Moreover, it offers to run unmodified queries up to 100 times faster on existing deployments.

c. Spark Streaming
Basically, across live streaming, Spark Streaming enables a powerful interactive and data analytics application. Moreover, the live streams are converted into micro-batches those are executed on top of spark core

